# CS50 - Project 5 - Capstone ( Seeker )

## Overview

Sri Lanka is a beautiful country where tourism is a major source of income. However, many places and restaurants are not well-documented, and information about them is often limited. As someone who is passionate about writing reviews on Google and contributing to Google Maps, I believe there should be a dedicated website for Sri Lanka where users can review restaurants and places. This would help people discover interesting locations they might want to visit.

So, I have developed this web application with passionate restaurant reviewers and location explorers in mind. It’s designed for those who are eager to discover beautiful locations in this small island country.

To develop my web application, I have used Django, as well as, thought myself React, and Tailwind CSS.

## Distinctiveness and Complexity

> Your web application must be sufficiently distinct from the other projects in this course (and, in addition, may not be based on the old CS50W Pizza project), and more complex than those.

I think my web application is distinct and unique from the other projects in this course because:

1. My project is based on an original idea that bears no resemblance to any of the projects built as part of the CS50W course.
2. I have utilized React and Tailwind in this project, which are not components of other projects in the CS50W course.
3. In this project, I have employed the Django REST framework to develop the API endpoints.
4. I have utilized JSON Web Tokens for authentication, which is not covered in this course.
5. I have employed React Router DOM to manage history and front-end paths.

> Your web application must utilize Django (including at least one model) on the back-end and JavaScript on the front-end.

My web application is built with Django and 4 models for the back-end and React, a JavaScript-based front-end development library, for the front-end.

> Your web application must be mobile-responsive.

Each page in the web application is mobile-responsive and has been built with a mobile-first approach, where mobile devices are considered a top priority during development. I have used Tailwind CSS for layout design and to manage breakpoints for different mobile screen sizes.

## File Structure and Content

- `Back-end/` - back-end application directory.
  - `seeker/` - back-end application directory.
    - `media/profile_pics/` - directory to store user profile pictures(currently not in use).
      - `default.jpg` - default profile picture.
    - `seeker/` - project directory.
      - `__init__.py` - generated by Django.
      - `asgi.py` - generated by Django.
      - `settings.py` - generated by Django and modified to add REST framework and simpleJWT.
      - `urls.py` - contain project URLS.
      - `wsgi.py` - generated by Django.
    - `seeker_food/` - main back-end application directory.
      - `migrations/` - generated by Django makemigration.
      - `__init__.py` - generated by Django.
      - `admin.py` - define models that manage by superuser.
      - `apps.py` - generated by Django.
      - `models.py` - define all the models that are used in the application.
      - `serializers.py` - define all the serializer classes which uses to serialize JSON responses.
      - `signals.py` - handle creating user profiles when the user registers.
      - `tests.py` - generated by Django.
      - `urls.py` - contains all the application URLS.
      - `views.py` - contains all the application views.
    - `db.sqlite3` - project database.
    - `manage.py` - generated by Django
  - `Pipfile` - Python environment file.
  - `Pipfile.lock` - python environment file.
  - `requirments.txt` - required packages for application to run.
- `Front-end/` - front-end application directory.
  - `src/` - main front-end application directory.
    - `api/` - api configuration directory.
      - `index.jsx` - contains axios configuration.
    - `auth/` - user authentication configuration directory.
        - `AuthContext.jsx` - configurations for authcontext.
        - `getAuthToken.jsx` - getting authentication tokens from localstorage.
        - `updateAuthStatus.jsx` - updating authentication tokens.
        - `useAuthToken.jsx` - provide useAuthToken hook.
    - `components/` - React components directory.
      - `AddReviewPage/` - add review page components.
      - `CreateListingPage/` - create listing page components.
      - `HomePage/` - home page components.
      - `LoginPage/` - login page components.
      - `PageDetailsPage/` - detail view page components.
      - `Register/` - register page components.
      - `SearchPage/` - search page components.
      - `Button.jsx` - button component.
      - `NavBar.jsx` - navigation bar component.
      - `Root.jsx` - layout component.
      - `Spinner.jsx` - loading animation component.
      - `Star.jsx` - generating stars component.
      - `TextField.jsx` - text field component.
      - `utils.jsx` - utility for components.
  - `routing/` - frontend routing directory.
    - `routes.jsx` - contain all the frontend routes.
  - `error-page.jsx` - error page component.
  - `index.css` - contain front-end css.
  - `main.jsx` - contains code to render all the jsx components.
  - `.eslintrc.cjs` - generated by Vite.
  - `index.html` - generated by Vite. Vite uses this file to render all the React javascript code.
  - `package-lock.json` - contains all the required frontend packages.
  - `package.json` - contains information about all the frontend packages.
  - `tailwind.config.js` - tailwindcss configuration file.
  - `vite.config.js` - vite configuration file.
- `.gitignore` - defines files to be ignored by Git.
  

## How to Run the Application

Follow these steps to run the application:

1. Open a terminal.
2. Change the directory to the `Backend` folder by running `cd Backend`.
3. Install the necessary dependencies by running `pipenv install`.
4. Activate the virtual environment by running `pipenv shell`.
5. Start the backend server by running `python3 manage.py runserver`.

Next, set up the front-end:

6. Open a second terminal.
7. Change the directory to the `Frontend` folder by running `cd Frontend`.
8. Install the necessary dependencies by running `npm install`.
9. Start the front-end server by running `npm run dev`.

Now, the application should be up and running!

## Features I would like to add/improve

- [ ] - Add the ability to bookmark a place.
- [ ] - Add the ability to upload user-taken images.
- [ ] - Improve the user authentication system, particularly refresh tokens.
- [ ] - Expand the website to include different types of locations, not just restaurant reviews.
- [ ] - Add the ability to change passwords, user data, and profile pictures.
- [ ] - Implement a scoring system to gamify the experience and motivate users to review and add more places.
- [ ] - Learn about user preferences and tailor the explore page according to their interests.

## Conclusion

This is by no means a perfect solution. I encounter different bugs and problems each day while working on this project and learning about new technologies and designs. I will continue to work on and improve this project, as it provides a valuable learning experience.

Furthermore, it’s been a truly amazing experience to follow the [CS50W : Web Programming with Python and JavaScript](https://cs50.harvard.edu/web/2020/) course by Harvard. By the end of it, I have learned so much and acquired numerous skills in web programming. I would like to express my gratitude to everyone involved. This was CS50W.
